>> So welcome to our WWDC Session,
Peer-to-Peer Networking with Game Kit.
My name is Joe and I'll be the first of
three presenters who will talk to you
about this brand new technology in iPhone 3.0.
Some of you may be new to the iPhone and we welcome you.
And others of you are veteran developers on iPhone
and you may have one or more apps on the App Store.
Of course you're all welcome and in either case what
you'll find in Game Kit is an amazingly easy API to use
to connect your application across multiple devices.
If you already have an application that connects
multiple users and works over the internet,
what you'll find in Game Kit is a very simple API
that you can use to add voice chat functionality.
To show you how you're going to learn about
all this today, let's go over the agenda.
We'll go over a brief overview of the capabilities of
Game Kit, following this we're going to go into the APIs.
There are three classes in Game Kit, the GKSession which
we'll refer to as the Session, the GKPeerPickerController
which we'll call the Peer Picker, and then there's
the GKVoiceChatService which we'll call Voice Chat.
Now as we talk to you about the APIs in these
classes, you're going to see some code samples
and at the same time we hope that you hear
some tips and best practices to using them.
Now let me talk about what you're going to learn.
You're going to essentially learn
two main things this morning.
The first of course is how to use Game
Kit to connect to your application.
In Game Kit, we have two classes for this purpose.
There is the GKSession, the session object
which will handle all the networking for you,
and then there is the Peer Picker object which
will give you an instant UI that you can use
to quickly connect two users of your application.
The network that Game Kit creates is a peer-to-peer
network composed of devices running your application.
Your application doesn't need to
be online for this to happen,
so this means of course you don't need a WiFi router,
you don't need a cell data network connection.
What you do need is Bluetooth, and the hardware
that supports this new Bluetooth
functionality are the iPhone 3G including
of course their brand new 3GS and
the second generation iPod touch.
The second thing that you're going to learn this morning
will be to how to use Game Kit to integrate voice chat.
We essentially have voice chat in the box
where you just need to provide the network.
So the API is designed to integrate
with your existing network code.
Now as well as handling some obvious things
for you such as audio encoding and decoding,
it includes usage of that voice processing
unit that Eric Allamanche spoke
about in a previous CoreAudio session yesterday.
So it includes echo cancellation.
Now let's see how Game Kit may fit into your application.
Here is the application at the top.
Your application has access to one or more of the Game
Kit objects, the session, Peer Picker and voice chat.
Game Kit itself to handle all of its
networking, is built on Bonjour and sockets.
Game Kit uses Bonjour Service Discovery to find
your application running on different devices.
And then Game Kit is using socket APIs to
establish network connections between the devices,
between your applications running on
these devices, and to deliver your data.
There are a couple of things I
want to mention about Bonjour.
The first is that in iPhone 3.0, peer-to-peer connectivity
over Bluetooth is integrated at the Bonjour layer.
What this means for you is that if you already
have an application that works over Bonjour,
then if your users are an iPhone 3.0
and they're on the supported hardware,
your application will automatically
just work over Bluetooth.
You don't have to make any code
changes for this functionality.
Now I do want to point that if this is the first time you've
heard about Bonjour or if you know every little about it,
or if you don't know much about socket APIs, you don't
have to know these things in order to use Game Kit.
Game Kit interfaces with these APIs
directly and can handle all this for you.
Now I'm going to go and talk about the session API.
Before I get into the details of the
API, let's talk about some terminology.
In Game Kit we use the term peer to
refer to an instance of a GKSession.
Now since your application will typically just use one
instance of GKSession, what this essentially means is
that a peer is your application running on a device.
Now to differentiate between the different devices running
your application, Game Kit has what we call a peer ID.
This is some string that's a unique identifier for peer.
Note that even though this is a string,
you should not display this to your user.
If you wanted a public name for the peer ID or display
name, we have a method called displayNameForPeerID
which will give you this name, and when I talk about how
to create the GKSession you'll see how you can set
this display name to whatever value you'd like.
Now there are only three stages to
using GKSession in your application.
You first need to initialize the GKSession.
Once you've done that you can proceed to connect to
other users, and once you've connected at least two users
or two instances of your application, you
can then begin to send and receive data.
Now I'm going to go through each of these stages in turn.
Stage 1, initialize the GKSession.
You first of course need to create a GKSession object.
So what you see up here is code
that alloc inits a GKSession.
You'll note that it takes three parameters.
The first parameter is what we call a session ID.
This is an ID that uniquely identifies your application.
Game Kit will use your session ID to
differentiate it from the session IDs
of other applications written by
other developers such as yourself.
To help insure that your session ID is indeed unique to you,
we recommend that you register your
session ID as a Bonjour service type.
Now in my case I have my session ID and that
could certainly be a registered service type
or it could just be some string that I've come up with.
Now if you're wondering what string to use or if you
haven't had the chance to go and register a service type,
you could certainly pass a nil as a first parameter.
If you do this, what Game Kit will do is
generate a session ID for you that is based
on the bundle identifier in your application.
So you can do this to quickly get started with
GKSession but we really recommend that you register it
as a Bonjour service type, and I believe in Allan
Schaffer's talk yesterday he showed you a website
where you can go do that.
So check that out.
It's easy, you send an email, it's
free, and your service type as well
as your company's name will actually be posted on a webpage.
So we'll have a free advertising for you.
Now let's go to the second parameter, the display name.
This is how you set that public name that is returned
when you call the display name for peer method.
In my example on passing a nil, if you pass a nil here,
Game Kit will just use your device name as the display name.
If you're not satisfied with the device name, if you want
to pass in your own name like a real name like Andy or Bob,
or you want to use a gamer handle,
pass it in as a second parameter.
The third parameter is a session mode.
The session mode affects how Game
Kit will find and connect peers.
>> There are three modes in Game
Kit, server, client, and peer.
In server mode the peer is just advertising your session ID.
It's doing this because it's expecting to be
found by other peers searching for your session ID
so that it can then receive connection requests.
Client mode is a mode where the peer
will search for your session ID.
So a peer in client mode will find a peer in
server mode assuming their session IDs match.
The third mode is peer mode.
It's a combination of client and server.
A peer in peer mode will both advertise
your session ID and search for it.
Now you'll note in the diagram here, you could see that we
have four devices connected using server and client mode.
And what we recommend is that if you want, you know,
if your application requires the need to connect more
than two instances together, we recommend that
you use client mode and server mode to do this.
It's the most efficient way for
you to get more than two devices
or more than two instances of your
application connected together.
Now I've finished talking about how to create the
object, there are two remaining things you need to do.
You need to set the delegate.
GKSession has a delegate protocol
called the GKSession Delegate Protocol
and it is through this delegate where
you can get events from Game Kit.
The last thing you need to do in stage
1 is to set the session as available.
Setting the session as available starts this process of
either advertising your session ID, searching for it,
or the combination of the two depending on the
mode that you have selected for the session.
We're now at stage 2, connecting to other users.
To establish a connection to another peer,
Game Kit has a method called connectToPeer
and this just takes the peer ID of
the peer that you want to connect to.
This peer in order to handle this connection
invitation will need to watch for incoming connections.
And to do this the delegate must implement the
session didReceiveConnectionRequestFromPeer method.
It is through this method that the session will tell you
the delegate that hey, here is an incoming connection.
And what you'll get is the peer ID of
the peer that wants to connect to you.
So you're expected to respond to this
invitation and you could accept or deny it.
In my example here you could see us accepting the connection
and to do so we call acceptConnectionFromPeer and we pass
in the peer ID of that peer that
sent us the connection request.
Now you might be wondering, how do I know the
peer ID of the peer that I want to connect to?
Or if I was able to send a connection request and
it was accepted, how do I know that it succeeded?
How do I know that I'm now connected to this other peer?
Well the key thing here to handle this or to
find out is to watch for peer state changes.
To do this, your delegate must implement
the session peer didChangeState method.
It is through this method that the session will tell
the delegate the new state for a particular peer.
One example state is the available state.
A peer that comes in with the available states is
a peer that was found that matches your session ID
and it's a peer that can accept connection requests.
So if your application has a UI and
you want to present a UI to your user,
of the available users around who
are also running your application,
if you get this callback you can update
your UI with the name of that user.
And you can get the name by calling
the displayNameForPeerID method.
And then if they click that name, you can then
call that connect to peer method that I showed you
on the previous slide, connect
to peer and pass in that peer ID.
Now if you've sent the connection request and it's been
accepted, each peer will know that it's now connected
to the other peer by callback where the state is connected.
A peer that comes in to this callback
to this didChangeState callback
with the connected state is now connected to your session.
So now your peer can send and receive data with this peer.
Now these are just two states that I mentioned.
If you look at the API documentation there is actually more.
One state here that's missing which you may have seen
in Allan's slides yesterday is the disconnected state.
So you'll also know that you're no
longer connected to a particular peer
if you get this callback and the state is disconnected.
We're now at stage 3, send and receive data.
In Game Kit we have two methods to send data.
The method that you see up here is one that allows you
to send data to all the peers that are connected to you.
The other method which you can see in the documentation
is one that allows you to send data to a subset of peers,
just one peer or two out of four if you
have a team based type of application.
In both cases, the data that you want to
send needs to be wrapped in an NSData,
so you simply take your application data, wrap it in an
NSData and then pass it as a first parameter in this method.
Game Kit supports two modes of data delivery.
There is a reliable mode and an unreliable mode.
You'll want to use reliable mode for data
that is critical to your application,
data that needs to arrive at all the peers.
In reliable mode, Game Kit will take care of retransmitting
this data for you as well as delivering this data in order
if you've called send data with
reliable mode multiple times in a row.
Now there is some overhead because of the retransmissions.
So if you have app data that updates
frequently such as real-time data for example,
or more obviously a positional data, you
should use the unreliable mode for send data.
The last parameter is an error parameter, and
note that if there is invalid error returned here,
it's more an error about data transmission.
Send data as well as many other
methods in Game Kit is non-blocking.
So when you call send data it's going to return right away.
If there is an error, you should check that and one error
that you may encounter especially if you're first playing
with this and using a reliable mode all
the time is a buffer full type of error.
Now if you're sending data you're
going to want a way to receive it,
so to do this you need to set what
we call a data receive handler.
This is an object that implements the receive
data from peer in session context method.
You'll note that the data that you receive
will come to you as an NSData object.
So you could simply access the bytes
there and parse your data as you see fit.
You'll also note that you get the peer
ID of the peer who sent you that data.
So, you know, that comes in as a second parameter here.
Now I'm done with stage 3 and that's pretty much it.
Those are the three stages that you
would need to follow if you want
to integrate GKSession directly in your application.
So a slide for review, Game Kit creates a
peer-to-peer network and delivers your data.
In iPhone 3.0 this support is over Bluetooth.
Game Kit uses the notion of peers and peer IDs to
refer to devices that are running your application
or your application instances on different devices.
And then there are just three stages
to using GKSession in your application.
You initialize the GKSession passing it important
information such as the session ID and then choosing a mode.
You could then proceed to connect to your peers.
Implement that didChangeState callback and know
when a peer is available so that you could then call
that connect to peer method to connect to them.
And then once you're connected to at least
one other peer, you can deliver your data
and call the send data receive
methods and make sure you have it set,
a data receive handler so you can receive the data.
Now earlier on I mentioned that the first
thing that you're going to learn today is how
to use Game Kit to connect your application.
And then I mentioned that there are two
classes that you can use to help you with this.
>> I've just told you about the GKSession.
The other object is the Peer Picker and it can actually
take care of stages 1 and 2 for you as well as provide you
with a standard UI that you can immediately use to connect
your application across two devices and to tell you all
about this, I would like to introduce
my colleague Jonathan Bennett.
Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Joe.
So I'm Jonathan Bennett and I'm a
software engineer on the Game Kit team.
So you just heard Joe talked about
how you can use the Game Kit session
to easily discover, connect, and send data to other peers.
Now if you have a multiplayer game or a multiuser
application, one of the most important things you're going
to need to do is provide your users with
a way to find and connect to other peers.
Now we also know that you as developers are more
interested in what happens after your peers are connected.
It's your in-game multiplayer experience that's
going to have your players coming back for more.
So to help with this, if you have a one-on-one multiplayer
game, we provided a facility called the Peer Picker
to make finding and connecting to peers even easier.
So what is the Peer Picker?
Simply it's a standard Apple user interface that you can
show to your users to have them connect two peers together
into the Game Kit session that you can
then use to start your multiplayer game.
So how does this fit in to your application?
As Joe talked about, your application sits
on top and can call the Game Kit session
to do this discovery connection
and sending data back and forth.
Now if you have a one-on-one multiplayer application, you
can use the Peer Picker to sit in between your application
and the Game Kit session and it will
handle everything you need to do
for connect-- finding and connecting to another peer.
So that's what the Peer Picker does for
you, what does it do for your users?
Well first and importantly it provides a
list of nearby iPhones and iPod touches
that your user can connect to in order to play a game.
If your user wants to select somebody in the list
it will send an invitation to that other iPhone.
The other iPhone will receive an invitation where
they can choose to accept or decline the invitation.
And if they accept the Peer Picker manages the
connection of those two peers into a Game Kit session.
Additionally, the Peer Picker provides your users with
a way to turn on Bluetooth from within your application
so they don't have to go outside of
your application to turn on Bluetooth
and come back in, in order to do peer-to-peer gaming.
So let's go through a workflow of how
this looks and how your application
and your users interact with the Peer Picker.
So here we have John's iPhone and John wants to play a game
so he taps multiplayer and your application sends messages
to Game Kit saying that they want to show the Peer Picker.
The Peer Picker asks your session if you have a Game
Kit session that you'd like to provide to help do this.
Your application provides it and now you have
a session that is sending and receiving data.
So Jane's iPhone comes along and they discover each other
and the session tells the Peer
Picker that they have found a peer.
So the Peer Picker shows who is available on the list
and now let's say that John's iPhone or John wants
to play a game with Jane so he taps Jane in
the list, automatically sends an invitation
to Jane's iPhone and Jane receives this invitation.
Now Jane also wants to play with
John so she accepts this invitation.
Again, automatically this notifies
John's iPhone that she has accepted.
The sessions become connected and the Peer Picker tells
your application that it is connected to another peer.
Now that your application is done with the Peer Picker,
it dismisses it and it now has a fully configured
and connected Game Kit session that you
can use to start your multiplayer game.
So how do we get this into your application?
There's three main steps.
First you need to show the Peer Picker to your users.
You then need to be able to respond to Peer
Picker events such as when a peer is connected.
And when a peer is connected you
need to take over responsibility
for the Game Kit session in order
to start your multiplayer game.
Let's go into this first part showing the Peer Picker.
It's pretty simple.
First you need to initialize a Peer Picker by calling
the GKPeerPickerController object and allocating it.
You then need to set the picker's delegate.
And then lastly you need to show the picker by calling
the show method and this is all you need in order
to display the Peer Picker to your users and have it
automatically start finding nearby peers over Bluetooth.
And we also realized that some of you may be developing
games that you want to provide your users with an option
to either do nearby peer-to-peer connections over
Bluetooth or you may have a remote internet service
that you provide for internet connections.
Well if your app supports this, you can tell the Peer
Picker this and we'll provide an additional UI to the user
when it initially comes up that allows them to select
whether they want to do a nearby connection or they want
to connect to your remote internet service.
So how do you tell the Peer Picker this?
It's really simple, same basic steps as we saw before except
for before we call the show method
we set the connection types--
the connectionTypesMask property to
both nearby and online connection types.
And this is all you need to show
that UI for your users to select.
So now you have shown your users the
Peer Picker, how do you interact with it?
Oh sorry, there is one important note to this.
The Peer Picker only handles configuring network
connections over nearby Bluetooth connections
so if your application supports remote internet service,
you will need to provide a UI and a way for your users
to configure your remote internet connections.
So how do you interact with it, you do it through the
delegate and the delegate has a few responsibilities.
First, it needs to respond to some user actions, then
it also needs to provide a way to tell the Peer Picker
who to look for and it does that
by providing a GKSession object.
And then lastly and importantly it needs to respond when
peers have been connected so you can start your game.
And it does this through the GKPeerPickerControllerDelegate.
So a first interaction to deal with is a user cancelled.
This happens when the user taps on the
Cancel button and you can respond to this
by implementing the -peerPickerController:didCancelDelegate
method.
And basically this is your opportunity to clean
up any state, deal with any memory management
and show any new UI or enable any new UI.
So what might this look like in
code, here is a quick example.
Here we are releasing the Peer Picker since we're
done with it and in this example we have a reference
to a Game Kit session so we're cleaning that up because
we're not going to use it since the user cancelled.
And then we go and display our main
menu UI if we need to and that's it.
The Peer Picker automatically dismisses
when the user cancels it
so there is no need to programmatically dismiss it here.
So your implementation will probably
look somewhat similar to this.
Another user interaction that you'll need to deal with is if
the user taps on a connection type in that connection panel.
Again, this is only shown if you told the Peer
Picker that you support multiple connection types
and if you do you'll need to respond to this.
And you do that through the
-peerPickerController:didSelectConnectionTypeDelegate
method.
Now as I mentioned, the Peer Picker only supports a
way to configure nearby connections over Bluetooth.
>> So if you have a-- if you support multiple
connection types and the user taps the online button,
you'll need to programmatically dismiss
the Peer Picker, and how do you do this.
Quite simply, you just check if the
selected type is the online type and if so,
you programmatically dismiss the Peer
Picker by calling the dismiss method.
You release the Peer Pickers as you're done with it because
you're going to dismiss it and then show your own UI
for configuring remote internet connections.
So another thing you may want to do is
tell the Peer Picker who to look for
and you do this by providing a Game Kit session.
And you provide it through the peerPickerController
session for ConnectionTypeDelegate method.
And this is, excuse me, the reason why you
may want to do this is as Joe mentioned,
when you create a Game Kit session you can
provide a session ID and a display name.
Joe mentioned that you may register your-- a
Bonjour service type and use that as a session ID.
And you may also want to provide a custom
display name such as a gamer handle.
And it's this display name that
we show in the list to other peers
and that's how other peers will see you in the Peer Picker.
So if you're just trying to get things up and running
or you don't really care about those two aspects,
if you decide not to implement this delegate method,
the Peer Picker will automatically create a default Game
Kit session for you to use to find peers and connect them.
So what does this look like in code?
There's a few ways you can do this.
The real simple way is allocating a GKSession object,
setting your custom session ID, setting your display name
and then we also, you can see here, set the
session mode to the peer mode and that's required
for any session you provide the Peer Picker.
And we provide the Peer Picker by returning it
and we auto release it just so we don't leak.
So lastly, importantly, you'll need to be able to respond
to when the Peer Picker has connected to another peer.
And you can do this by implementing the
peerPickerController:didConnectPeer:toSession
delegate method.
And there's a couple of things you need to do here.
One is, if you haven't it already, you'll need to retain
a reference to the Game Kit session and that's basically
so you can use it later to send data
back and forth in your multiplayer game.
The other thing is that the Peer Picker does not
automatically dismiss when a peer is connected
so you'll need to programmatically dismiss it and
you want to do it within this delegate method.
So what will this look like?
Here we are setting the session
to a property that retains it.
And then down below we programmatically dismiss by calling
the dismiss method and then we release the Peer Picker
as we're done with it and then basically
you start your multiplayer game.
Now there's one more aspect I want to
talk about which is the relationship
between the Peer Picker and the Game Kit session.
Now the Peer Picker is there and it makes
it really easy to provide a user interface
that finds and connects to other devices.
So, but to do this you want to wait
to respond to any Session events
until after the Peer Picker has told you
that it is connected to another peer.
So this is a snippet from the previous slide and
focusing in on here is that after we retain a reference
to the Game Kit session, we then set ourselves
as the delegate and set the data receive handler
so we can start responding to Session events.
So with that I invite you all to start playing around with
Game Kit, the Game Kit Peer Picker and the Game Kit session.
And to help you do this we are providing some sample
code called GKTank and this is a simple two-player game
that uses the Peer Picker for peer discovery and
connection and uses the Game Kit session to drive
that multiplayer game, and this is
available on the attendee site for download.
And with that I'd like to invite Roberto up on stage to talk
to you how you can take your game to
the next level by adding voice chat.
>> Hi my name is Roberto and I had the
pleasure of working on the GKVoiceChatService.
Today we're going to tell you how you
can add voice chat to your application.
Now some of you maybe thinking why add
voice chat, and the answer is simple.
It's fun. Your customers are going to love it and we've
made it easy for you to add this to your application.
So if you attended Allan's talk yesterday
you got a short preview, and if you haven't
and you've never seen this API before, today you're
going to learn enough to go back and get started.
And if you already have an application and you want
to know, well, is the voice chat service compatible
with my existing code or my existing server infrastructure,
after today's session you'll be
able to make an informed decision.
And lastly, if you're anything like me and you need to see a
concrete example, we're presenting a working implementation
of the voice chat service built right on top of an
existing piece of Bonjour sample code called WiTap voice.
So let's dive right in.
What exactly does your application get
when it uses the voice chat service?
Well, you heard Joe mention this earlier but I'll reiterate.
We're going to do all of the audio processing for you.
We're going to pull from the mic, we're
going to encode, we're going to decode,
and we're even going to do echo suppression
thanks to the voice processing audio unit.
If you're not a real-time network
engineer you can breathe a sigh of relief.
We're going to do the packetization, we're
going to do NAT traversal and we're even going
to send and receive audio on our own socket.
So, you've heard a lot about what
your application doesn't need to do
and you're probably thinking well what do I need to do.
Your application needs to do two things.
The first thing is called the VoiceChatService methods.
The second thing is implement the
GKVoiceChatClient protocol.
The VoiceChatClient protocol does two things.
The first thing is that it acts as a
delegate to the voice chat service.
And the second thing, this is really the important
thing that it does and the thing that you'll need
to pay attention to, is that it provides a mechanism for
the voice chat service to exchange a few control packets
so that we can do our NAT traversal and
set up our own peer-to-peer connection.
So how does your application use the voice chat service?
Well if you want to send a voice chat invitation all
you have to do is call startVoiceChatWithParticipantID.
Don't get hang up on what a participant ID is yet.
We're going to cover that in great detail later.
When your application receives a voice chat
invitation you should call acceptCallID or denyCallID.
Don't worry about what a call ID
is, that's going to be passed to you
when you receive the invitation and it's just an NSInteger.
And lastly, you can tear down the call at any
point by calling stopVoiceChatWithParticipantID.
So these methods were all designed with the
metaphor that should seem very familiar to you
and that is placing a phone call on your iPhone.
When you dial a number this is like
calling startVoiceChatWithParticipantID.
When you receive a call you can either accept or decline
it and this is like calling acceptCallID or declineCallID.
And lastly either party can press
the End Call button at any point.
Likewise in the voice chat service API you
can call stopVoiceChatWithParticipantID.
So how exactly is a voice chat set up, let's look at that.
Earlier you heard me mention that your application is going
to provide a mechanism to exchange a few control packets.
What does that look like?
Well when your application call
startVoiceChat, the voice chat service is going
to create what we'll call an invite packet.
From your applications perspective this
is really just an opaque data blob.
The voice chat service is going to pass the
voice chat invite up to the application.
>> The application is going to forward it across
your application's existing infrastructure
and the remote instance of your application is going to pass
it down to the remote instance of the voice chat service.
Should you accept the call or should
your user accept the call
The voice chat service is going to create an
appropriate reply and repeat the process in reverse.
So this is what I mean by exchange packets.
So now that these packets have been exchanged,
the voice chat service, each instance of it,
has enough information to do NAT traversal and set up its
own peer-to-peer audio connection using its own socket.
[ Pause ]
>> So the key takeaway is that your application
will be providing a mechanism or a channel
that the voice chat service can use to exchange
these control packets and you'll provide this channel
by implementing the VoiceChatClient protocol.
So it has two methods, two required methods.
The first is named participantID and it returns an NSString.
For now you can think of this as how other instances
of your application will address the
local instance of your application.
The next method is
voiceChatService:sendData:toParticipantID.
This is the method that the voice chat service is going to
call when it wants to send one of these control packets.
And lastly although this isn't part of the protocol,
it's implied that when you receive a voice chat service
packet you'll pass it down to the voice chat service later
and you'll do that by calling the
receivedData:fromParticipantID of voice chat service method.
So let's address each one of these respectively.
ParticipantID, this is a string that
only has meaning to your application,
the voice chat service doesn't know anything about
this and it's going to depend greatly on the service
that your application uses to communicate.
For instance, hypothetically, if you are running
a name client you would return the screen name
for your participantID because this is how
the other name clients would address you
when they wanted to send you a message.
If you were going to run the GKSession
you would return your peer ID
because that's how other remote
GKSessions refer to your local GKSessions.
For the next few slides I'm going to present an example
and that is my name is Bob and I'm running a client
or an application on the iPhone on the
new fooim.org instant messenger service.
Well what participantID would I return?
It would be bob@fooim.org and that's because that's
how the other fooim.org clients would address me
when they sent Bob a message.
So voiceChatService:sendData:toParticipantID.
This is the method that the voice chat service is going to
call when it wants to send one of these control packets.
If you were to take a peek inside of
the voice chat service implementation,
the codes that you see above would be
representative of a call to this method.
The first parameter pass would be self since
the voice chat service is calling this method.
The second parameter would be this opaque data blob,
and the last parameter would be the destination
participantID or where the blob is going.
In this case Bob is trying to start a voice chat with Alice
so the voice chat service is sending
Alice a voice chat invitation.
So that's what a call to this method looks like.
What will your implementation look like?
Your implementation will wrap the
voice chat service packet in such a way
that they can be distinguished
from native application packets.
By that I mean you should encapsulate the voice chat
service packet inside one of your native application packets
and give it a type identifier, so that
when it's received by the remote instance
of your application it can be distinguished,
it can be distinguished and unpacked
and passed back down to the voice chat service layer.
And your application will do that by calling
the receivedData:fromParticipantID method.
So an example call of how your client will
call that method, you can see that above,
the first parameter will be this opaque data blob, and
the second parameter would be where you got the blob from.
Now this is up to your application so
you know where you got the message from
and all you're doing is you're
telling the voice chat service later.
In this case Alice's fooim.org client knows
that she received the message from Bob.
So you've seen all of the relevant methods in
the voice chat service and the voice chat client.
And I gave you a sort of a high level graph
of what the voice chat setup looks like.
Now let's go fill in some of those gaps
and see a more detailed explanation.
So Bob is going to want to start a voice chat with Alice.
So he calls startVoiceChatWithParticipantID.
The voice chat service will then create an invite packet.
It will pass the invite packet up to the voice
chat client by calling sendData:toParticipantID
where the participantID in this case is alice@fooim.org.
The voice chat client will then wrap the packet
so that it looks like a native application packet
and forward it across the fooim.org server.
When Alice's application receives the packet it will
distinguish it first of all as a voice chat packet
and pass it back down to voice chat service later.
Remember, this is completely opaque to your application
so you don't need to worry about what the packet contains.
So the voice chat service knows that it's an
invitation so it will tell Alice's client.
Alice, yeah she is kind of fond of
Bob so she decides to accept the call.
The voice chat service then will create an appropriate
reply and the process will be repeated in reverse.
Now, both instances of the voice
chat service have enough information
to do NAT traversal and set up a peer-to-peer audio channel.
So this isn't a metaphorical dotted line.
The voice chat service packets
will be running over on socket
and both applications will be informed
that they started a voice chat.
So you've seen all the methods for both the
voice chat client and the voice chat service,
and now you've seen a detailed call flow setup
Let's put it into practice.
We'll do that by showing you the WiTap example.
WiTap is the simplest game that Apple
ships and it's built right on top
of Bonjour and we're going to add voice chat today.
So what is WiTap, how does that work?
It starts off by showing you a table where
each entry of the table is an instance
of the WiTap application being advertised over Bonjour.
When a user clicks on an entry in the table a
TCP connection is created between the instances
of the application and the game is started.
When one user clicks on the square the square is highlighted
and the same square is highlighted on the reverse side.
So now we're going to dive into how you add voice chat.
So the first thing you do is you want to initialize
the voice chat client or voice chat service.
You do that by first calling defaultVoiceChatService.
So this is a singleton.
You're going to get the one instance
of the voice chat service.
Once you have that you can set the client.
In this case it's going to be self because
the voice chat client is implemented--
voice chat client protocol is going to
be implemented by the app controller.
And lastly, and this is really important, we're not going to
show it today but you'll set up an audio session and this is
so that the voice chat service audio will integrate well
with the audio session audio or with your in-game audio.
The sample code will have this so when you leave the
session and you want to use this, go back and look at it.
So to add voice chat to your application you need
to implement the voice chat client
protocol, and remember there are two methods.
The first is participantID.
In this case since we're running on top of Bonjour,
we're going to return the local service instance name,
because this is how the other services,
the other applications can resolve the local
instance of my application or the local service.
>> For the send data method we're going to just go ahead
and call a convenience method called voiceChatSend.
Now you'll see that we're performing the selector on
main thread and the reason for that is we don't want
to end or leave rights to the TCP string.
This will provide some thread safety because the
other right is also happening on the main thread.
So before we dive into how voiceChatSend
is implemented now let's go back
and look at how it currently is implemented
in the original WiTap source code.
So this is-- the code you'll see today
will be a slight simplification just
for brevity's sake and to fit everything on one slide.
But you'll see there's a variable name
outStream and this is an NSoutputStream
which is an abstruction over the TCP string.
And all you do when you want to send which
square is being highlighted as you send one by--
and that tells the remote instance everything it
needs to know to highlight or unhighlight a square.
Well earlier I mentioned that you'll need
to wrap the voice chat service packets.
What that also means is that if you don't wrap
your packets currently you'll need to do so.
So we've added a WiTap message
header, a very simple network header.
All it does is it contains a length and this is the length
of the message not including the header and the type.
In this case we're sending a WiTap packet
type so we're letting the other instance
of the WiTap application know we're
sending it a screen update.
We then write the message header and write the byte.
So voice chats then will look very similar
to this, the difference being instead
of a WiTap packet type we're going
to send a voice packet type.
And instead of sending the 1 byte
we're going to send the data blob.
So that's sent.
So now we have implemented the two required
methods, participantID and sendData.
So the last implied method, so this isn't in the
protocol, this isn't the voice chat client protocol,
it's a voice chat service method,
it's that you need to be able to pass
to receive voice chat service packets
down to the voice chat service later.
So let's look at the current implementation of WiTap.
All it does is that when it receives the stream delegate
event it's going to use the inStream which is an abstraction
over the input side of the TCP stream and
it's an NSinputStream to read the 1 byte.
But now you're receiving more than 1 byte, you're
receiving a header and whatever the message is.
So the first thing we'll do is
we'll read the WiTap message header.
After we've done that and of course you
can see I put it back in the host by order
so this is also good network practice, I can receive
the rest of the message, so if it's a WiTap--
so we'll check the Witap message header type and if it's
a voice packet type we'll create an instance of an NSData
and pass it out down to the voice chat service
later by calling receiveData:fromParticipantID
and the participantID is going to be the remoteInstanceName
because that's how our local instance
resolves the remote instance.
All right, so that was the meat of it, this is very simple.
So just to handle the initial calls that
your API will make, so to start a voice chat,
if you haven't already started the voice chat, call
it and this will happen whenever the TCP stream opens
so that way you have a way of sending the data blobs.
So the first-- so it's just voice chat service
startVoiceChatWithParticipantID where the participantID
of the person that you want to talk to or the application
you want to talk to is remoteInstanceName once again.
And of course if the voice chat succeeds,
what you want to do is update your UI
and this will depend on your application.
And if it doesn't you should look at
the error and this will be very helpful
when you're trying to get this set up and debugged.
And accepting the chat, all you have to do is implement
the optional method so you don't have to implement this.
It would be a good idea if you want to know
if you have a voice chat invitation though.
And that is the voiceChatService
didReceiveInvitationFromParticipantID.
So normally you probably want to-- well
depending again, once again on your application.
You want to inform the user, hey, you got a voice chat
and they can decide if they want to accept or decline it.
Now depending on your game, you might not want to do that.
In any case you want to call if you want to accept the chat
VoiceChatService acceptCallID and you notice that the callID
that I used is the one pass sensitive method.
And if the voice chat fails, once again, you need to
inspect the error or if it succeeds, update your UI.
So what's missing from this code?
So a very important piece is working with the AudioSession
to handle interrupts because when you receive a phone call
and your user comes back to it, to your application,
you want to handle that as smoothly as possible.
So in the sample code that you'll get with the
WiTap voice sample app will show you how to do that.
The other thing you want to do is you want to ensure that
the resources that you're playing in your game are going
to integrate well with the voice
chat data or the voice chat audio.
We'll also show you how to do that.
And lastly the code I showed you for the receive bit
of this was a tad simplified again for brevity's sake,
the spirit is there, but we'll show you how to be a
good non-blocking citizen so you don't want to hang
up your main thread, you want to be able
to receive each asynchronous call in turn.
And so again, once again the sample
code will have all of this.
And lastly the recap, so the big thing you need to know
is that once you implement the voice chat client protocol
which once again provides a mechanism just to exchange
these packets, we're going to do everything else
for you and it's going to be a lot of fun.
Go ahead and implement it.
And with that I'll hand it to Joe.
>> Thank you Roberto.
So I hope that you've learn from us the capabilities of
Game Kit and how you may use Game Kit in the application
that you write or any existing
application that you already have.
When I spoke I talked to you about the GKSession
and the key point there that I want to point out is
that there is essentially only three stages that you
need to follow to use GKSession in your application.
Now note that GKSession doesn't have any UI to help
you with this, however, from Jonathan you learned
about the Peer Picker and it's really easy
to get things connected with the Peer Picker.
You initialize it then you basically
show it and then as long
as you're handling the correct delegate
methods, everything will be taken care for you.
And then most recently you just heard
from Roberto about the voice chat service
and how it itself should be very easy for you to implement.
Now to review, there are some sample code available for you.
There is the GKTank sample that illustrates
how to use the Peer Picker and Session
and then there is the WiTap voice
sample which shows a modified version
of the WiTap sample but now with voice chat.
Now if you want any other additional information
please contact our Evangelist Allan Schaffer.
His email is here on the slide.